[MUSIC]
>> Kevin Whinnery: Before I went to break
I was kind of working a little bit on
figuring out why my view.js theme
switcher that I had attempted
to demo a few minutes ago wasn't working.
And it was a silly mistake
as you might imagine.
Here if we if we pull this up again,
I have moved the location
of the radio buttons.
And now when I click them, I switch
between a light and a dark CSS theme.
And looking at the if we take a look at
the elements we can see that the class
changes from light to dark
when I go back and forth.
So the issue at play was I had added
the radio buttons here above the footer,
but it actually wasn't a part of
the same element, the section element,
that we attached our view.js component to.
So the events that I was firing in
the model I was trying to bind to
was not actually part of the component.
And so by moving the inputs
inside the actual component,
they were able to bind to the same model.
So it's just the location of my
mark up in the DOM was misplaced.
The rest of the code was working fine.
>> Audience: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kevin Whinnery: So that is the piece
for the to do app for the theme switcher
using view.js that we had before.
And the other bit on that we asked you
to take a look at going into the break
was a socket IO and
trying to incorporate socket IO
into the updating flow
of a of the To Do item.
The challenge that I placed to you
guys going into the break, and
I didn't see any poor requests
come in which is okay you're out
having some Thai food, chowing down
a sandwich catching up, totally fine.
But the challenge I post to you
guys was to using socket IO.
Update the user, the view.JS based
user interface based on some
activity that was going on the server.
Whenever a new to do was added, pushing
event using socket IO up to the server.
So let's go ahead and do that,
I didn't see the poor request come in.
So to over launch to try to get this, get
this going, so we can take a look at that.
>> Kevin Whinnery: We reload here.
We have a list of todos.
Maybe knockout a couple of those there.
There's our list.
And we can still see that it is working
and persisting stuff to a database.
But now what we would like to have happen
is when I add a to do list item over
here and I just implement it for the add
I get another item showing up over here.
Here we go, if I add that over here.
No, we do have a little JS error so
whoops, minor problem as
I was finishing this up.
One moment please.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Just need
to change that up right quick.
Reload both of these and
with any luck that will be the end of it.
So I get it to you list yup yup and
then we see that added on
our other other tab as well.
So the way that we implemented this was
wiring up a socket server
with our REST API endpoint.
And when that add operation is executed,
emit a message backup to the client
with that todo that was added.
So let's break down that
code here real quick.
We'll start on the backend.
Now here in the server, at the command
where we actually start up our server
we add a little bit of logic
here to actually initialize
a socket IO server and associate that
with the HTTP server for the application.
So we create our HTTP server like before
and now we create an instance of socket IO
that we can use to manage incoming
socket connections from our users.
And then I pass that to a utility
module that I created for
handling socket communication over here
which has a method called init, and
then we pass to that a socket IO object.
Now if we look at that socket object
to find it's same level as webapp.js.
That init function just passes the socket
IO instance and assigns that to
a module scoped variable called IO.
And then we export another
function called todo added which
we intend to be called
from our controller.
It's gonna be passed todo item and
then it's gonna use that socket IO
instance to admit this event todo
added to the other connected clients.
>> Kevin Whinnery: So that's the, I guess
the other bit on the server side to point
out is we just create it, we required
that module here in our controller.
And then in our create function,
if the todo is created successfully then
recall that function and
omit that event in our socket IO server.
Back in the in the view JS view,
right now this is all
implemented within the constructor for
the view component.
There's a few ways we could approach
this but I create a property that's not
gonna be observable on the on
this view instance called socket.
And I call that IO function,
which is added into the window
global scope by including this
socket IO JavaScript file,
which is served up by
socket IO on the server.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And after I create that
socket, I add a listener for to do added.
Because the scope of this does
change within this function,
I just stashed it away in
a variable called self.
And then when that todo added item is
fired, I'm going to check the list
of todos that I already have to
see if I have that todo item.
So I'll check the ID of all of
the ones that have been successfully
created against the one
that just got added.
And if I don't already have
it in my list of todo items,
I go ahead and push that into that array,
which then will update the UI with
the latest list of todo items.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Any questions
on that particular bit of code or
socket IO stuff before we keep trucking?
Yes?
>> Speaker 4: What is the of keyword?
Is it basically serving
the same purpose there as a for
each loop or how exactly are you
doing that particular loop?
>> Kevin Whinnery: It's sort of
a variation on the traditional for
loop where you have an iterator
which is incremented.
The primary reason I'm using this
here rather than like an array for
each, where you pass in a function
with every element of the array
is you can't break out of a for each loop.
It's gonna be executed for
every member of the array.
Whereas in a for of loop,
you can breakout early,
which I needed to do here.
So, yeah, so
I'm sort of tracking the state there.
I assign the current todo
item to that t variable and
then start to work with it in the for
loop.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Other questions?
>> Kevin Whinnery: All right, cool beans.
Let's keep moving.
If you have any other questions
as we go along that's great.
I'll push up that branch of
the socket IO changes and
after we’re sort of off to
the races our next exercise.